https://issues.redhat.com/browse/ACM-13133 (#6890)
open-cluster-management/rhacm-docs: governance/config_policy_ctrl.adoc

[#kubernetes-config-policy-controller]
= Kubernetes configuration policy controller

> The configuration policy controller can be used to configure any Kubernetes resource and apply security policies across your clusters. The configuration policy controller communicates with the local Kubernetes API server to get the list of your configurations that are in your cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the configuration policy controller to configure any Kubernetes resource and apply security policies across your clusters. The configuration policy controller communicates with the local Kubernetes API server so that you can get a list of your configurations that are in your cluster.
```

> This policy controller is created on the managed cluster during installation. The configuration policy is provided in the `policy-templates` field of the policy on the hub cluster, and is propagated to the selected managed clusters by the governance framework.

Reviewer 2: Should we say "This configuration policy controller is created on the ..."?

Author: I would keep it as is. If there were multiple configuration policy controllers, then I would agree with you. @drkho How about this:
```suggestion
During installation, the configuration policy controller is created on the managed cluster. The configuration policy is provided in the `policy-templates` field of the policy on the hub cluster, and is propagated to the selected managed clusters by the governance framework.
```

This policy controller is created on the managed cluster during installation. The configuration policy is provided in the `policy-templates` field of the policy on the hub cluster, and is propagated to the selected managed clusters by the governance framework.

The configuration policy controller is created on the managed cluster during installation. The configuration policy controller supports the `enforce` and the `InformOnly` feature to remediate when the configuration policy is non-compliant. 

When the `remediationAction` for the configuration policy is set to `enforce`, the controller applies the specified configuration to the target managed cluster. 

When the `remediationAction` for the configuration policy is set to `InformOnly`, the parent policy does not enforce the configuration policy, even if the `remediationAction` in the parent policy is set to `enforce`.

*Note:* Configuration policies that specify an object without a name can only be `inform`.

> You can also use templated values within configuration policies. For more information, see _Template processing_.

Author: Updated this to decrease wall of text

> When the `remediationAction` for the configuration policy controller is set to `InformOnly`, the parent policy does not enforce the configuration policy, even if the `remediationAction` in the parent policy is set to `enforce`.

Author: is `InformOnly` a value used only in the controller policy ?

Reviewer 3: It can be used on any policy type. However, ConfigurationPolicy and OperatorPolicy are the only kinds that actually do `enforce`, so those are the only ones where it really has an effect (you can put `enforce` on a CertificatePolicy, but it doesn't behave differently than `inform`).

You didn't ask for more details, but I'll give some anyway, sorry :sweat_smile:. The actual template instances (eg a real ConfigurationPolicy on a managed cluster) only ever have `inform` or `enforce`. The framework transforms the value defined in template in the Policy based on the remediationAction value of the Policy. So if remediationAction is unset in the Policy, then the templates use whatever they were defined with; if the Policy is set to `inform`, then all the templates use `inform`; if the Policy is set to `enforce`, then all the templates use `enforce`. Setting a template to `InformOnly` is a special case: it overrides this logic, and ensures that template is *always* set to `inform`.

    spec:
...
----

> <1> Configuration policies that specify an object without a name can only be `inform`. When the `remediationAction` for the configuration policy is set to `enforce`, the controller applies the specified configuration to the target managed cluster.

Author: ```suggestion
<1> Configuration policies that specify an object without a name can only be set to `inform`. When the `remediationAction` for the configuration policy is set to `enforce`, the controller applies the specified configuration to the target managed cluster.
```

| Required
| Specifies the action to take when the policy is non-compliant. Use the following parameter values: `inform`, `InformOnly`, or `enforce`.

| `spec.customMessage`
| Optional

> | Based on the current compliance, this section is used to configure the compliance messages sent by the configuration policy to use one of the specified Go templates.

Author: ```suggestion
| Based on the current compliance, this section is used to configure the compliance messages sent by the configuration policy to use one of the specified Go templates. You can use the default message from the `.DefaultMessage` parameter and `.Policy` object variable of the current state of the policy from the configuration policy controller. The state of each related object is available at the `.Policy.status.relatedObjects[*].object` parameter section of the configuration policy controller. If you set an `evaluationInterval`, only identifiable information is available.
```

> 

Reviewer 3: Maybe this is a good spot to describe what variables are available in the templates? Like `.DefaultMessage` and the `.Policy.status.relatedObjects[*].object` details.

Author: Ok, I was a little confused about those values. So those are template values?

Reviewer 3: These are things available in the template. So a user could do
```yaml
    - objectDefinition:
        apiVersion: policy.open-cluster-management.io/v1
        kind: ConfigurationPolicy
        metadata:
          name: policy-jkuli-example
        spec:
          object-templates:
            - complianceType: musthave
              objectDefinition:
                apiVersion: v1
                data:
                  foobar: beepboop
                kind: ConfigMap
                metadata:
                  name: my-config
                  namespace: default
          customMessage:
            noncompliant: >-
              Overall, the status is "{{.DefaultMessage}}", the current value
              of foobar is "{{(index .Policy.status.relatedObjects 0).object.data.foobar}}"
```

And then the event might look like
```
Overall, the status is "NonCompliant; violation - configmaps [my-config] found but not as specified in namespace default", the current value of foobar is "baz"
```

| `spec.customMessage.compliant`
| Optional

> | Use this field to configure custom messages when your configuration policies are compliant. UTF-8 encoded characters, including emoji and foreign characters are supported values.

Author: ```suggestion
| Use this field to configure custom messages for configuration policies that are compliant. UTF-8 encoded characters, including emoji and foreign characters are supported values.
```

> | Based on the current compliance, this section is used to configure the compliance messages sent by the configuration policy to use one of the specified Go templates. You can use the default message from the `.DefaultMessage` parameter and `.Policy` object variable of the current state of the policy from the configuration policy controller. The state of each related object is available at the `.Policy.status.relatedObjects[*].object` parameter section of the configuration policy controller. If you set an `evaluationInterval`, only identifiable information is available.

Reviewer: To be consistent wit the sentence structure of the other table entries: 

```suggestion
| Based on the current compliance, use this section to configure the compliance messages sent by the configuration policy to use one of the specified Go templates. You can use the default message from the `.DefaultMessage` parameter and `.Policy` object variable of the current state of the policy from the configuration policy controller. The state of each related object is available at the `.Policy.status.relatedObjects[*].object` parameter section of the configuration policy controller. If you set an `evaluationInterval`, only identifiable information is available.
```

| `spec.customMessage.noncompliant`
| Optional

> | Use this field to configure custom messages when your configuration policies are non-compliant. UTF-8 encoded characters, along with emoji and foreign characters are supported values.

Author: ```suggestion
| Use this field to configure custom messages for configuration policies that are non-compliant. UTF-8 encoded characters, along with emoji and foreign characters are supported values.
```
